TASK1


HTTP is a set of rules that are used for communication with web servers or transmitting data.
HTTPS is the secure version of it.
When we access a website ,our browser makes request to web server for data such as HTML,Images etc.
There are parameters in a request
> The request method
> The HTTP Protocol Version
> The Page being requested


Types of requests-
>GET to retrieve the data from webpage
>POST to submit data to web server and possibly creating a new record
>PUT to submit data to web server to update info
>DELETE to delete info/records from a web server


HTTP Status Codes-

When we make request to web server, it gives response. The response contains an integer which tells us about the 
result of request.
General Status Codes:
100-199 -> Tells that first part of request is accepted and and user should with his request.
200-299 -> Tells that request was succesful
300-399 -> Redirects the client's request to other webpage or other website
400-499 -> Informs about Error in request
500-599 -> Informs about Error on the server side

Cookie:

When we visit a website we give it some info about ourselves so next time we come it updates settings
according to the info and thereby enhaces experience.



DNS
Stands for Domain Name System
Just like we have address for our home there are addresses for the computers on website. We can't remember IP addresses so DNS does that thing
for us.
Domain Names
It has 3 parts:
>TLD -- This is the rightmost part of the domain name
        Two types of it-
                      1> gTLD which is historically used to tell the purpose of the website
                         For e.g. .com tells us that website is for commercial purposes, .gov tells us that it is government website
                      2> ccTLD used for geographical purposes for e.g. .in tells that website is based in India
>Second Level Domain -- It is the middle part of the domain name. It has a limit of 63 char and can have only 0-9 a-z and hypen not at either ends
>SubDomain -- Left part of Domain name. We can  have multiple domains but length must be kept 253 chars.

DNS Record Types
A Record- These records resolve for IPv4 addresses
AAAA Record - resolves for IPv6 addresses
CNAME - resolves for other domain names
MX - These resolves for address that saves the email of domain we are visiting.
TXT - Any text can be stored in it.



TASK2


There are tools in the browser through which we can see the code of the webpage, the sources it have and many other things.
The tools available are:
> View Source - It shows us the code of the website we are currently on. The code contains HTML,CSS and JS commands. 
                We know a lot of info about website using this source code. We can get to know about the Framework used 
                to develop the website. We can see the relation between different webpages associated with the website.
                It contains the comments left by the developer for our help to understand the particular part of code or it 
                maybe a message left by developer.
> Inspector -   Using this we can see the code to view the current 'webpage'.Through this tool we can interact with the elements 
                of page. We can tinker with the code and see the changes occuring on webpage. These changes are not permanent and 
                will soon disappear when we refresh the page. We can debug the issues on the page by editing the code accordingly.
> Debugger - This is used to modify/debug javascript files associated with the website. It is very useful for developers 
             who want to deep dive into the JS code. The JS files are usually written in one line making it tough to read.
             We can use pretty print option to make that single line code readable. We can use 'breakpoint' at a particular 
             line of code such that code does not execute after that line.
             These tools are used to test the user interface of a website or any web.
                    application.
> Network Tab  - Using this we can see the requests that the webpage makes. One method for making a request is AJAX.
                 AJAX is a method with which we can asynchronously send a web request in the background.Since we get
                 info about the data flow between our computer and internet ,we can find the root cause of a problem.